The lila-kde FAQ:
Questions that may or may not have been asked,
but will be answered for your enhanced lila experience.
(contemplated by jpetso.)


Question Index

- Why did it take a year until lila-kde v0.8 made its comeback?
- How do I install the icon set in KDE?
- My favorite icon isn't in here! Can you draw one, please?
- What's all this business with PNG and SVG formats?
- I want to contribute to the lila project (or need an icon in SVG source)!
- Yeah, and how do I make my own color mods?
- My question has not been answered here! or: I need further help!


Q. Why did it take a year until lila-kde v0.8 made its comeback?
A. In the beginning, I was wondering myself. Just when lila-kde started to
   rock, it became unmaintained. Tom Chance, also known as telex4, who was
   the creator of the initial KDE port, left the project silently (while
   taking on other challenges). Anyways, the lila project, which had always
   been mostly a gnome thing, continued to evolve without the KDE port.
   Some time ago, I decided that this is bad, so here you are again
   with a new maintainer and much more icons than before.

Q. How do I install the icon set in KDE?
A. You have two possibilities to do that:
   a) You want to install it for your user only.
     In this case, unpack the release tarball into the ~/.kde/share/icons/
     directory. If you have Ark installed (which should be on nearly all
     KDE systems) then you can right-click the tarball in Konqueror,
     select 'Extract->Extract To...' and just specify the directory above in
     the 'Extract To:' text box. (You can even copy it from here into that
     text box! isn't that cute ;-)
   b) You want to install it for all users, so your mom can choose it too.
     In that case, unpack the release tarball into the share/icons/ sub folder
     of the KDE installation directory (which you can find out by executing
     'env | grep KDEDIR=' in Konsole). That will most probably require root
     privileges, so I propose starting up a privileged Konqueror and perform
     the method in a) from there. (At my place, the 'Extract To:' textbox
     would contain (for example) '/usr/kde/3.4/share/icons, but it can differ
     on your system.)
     Alternatively, you can unpack it as normal user and copy the unpacked
     folder to the destination directory with root privileges.

Q. D'ya think I'm stupid? I know how to install the theme...
A. You don't have to read all the answers.
   Only the ones that you're interested in. Really.

Q. My favorite icon isn't in here! Can you draw one, please?
A. We'll see. If you want to contact the team directly, you should come to
   our site at lila-theme.berlios.de, where we all wait for your forum posts.
   In the end, we certainly long for total completeness of the icon set, so
   your requested icon may just be drawn a little sooner than planned.
   (If it was planned at all.)
   If you want to help and have some good idea, you're strongly invited
   to draw one or more icons yourself. Our web site has a tutorial how
   to do that, and the team will try to help you as good as we can.

Q. What's all this business with PNG and SVG formats?
A. You know, that's only a workaround. PNGs is a well supported bitmap files,
   storing color and opacity values for each pixel in a picture. PNG is the
   standard picture format for KDE icon themes. SVG, on the other hand, is
   a vector graphics format on the rise, which stores information about
   the geometry of the picture, like the starting and end points of lines
   or fill and border colors of all the shapes in the picture.
   The lila icon set only consists of SVG pictures, but if you want them
   to look great in KDE, you have to convert them to the PNG format.
   That's what we do for lila-kde. The gnome folks don't need that workaround,
   because they have a proper package displaying SVGs (which is called rsvg).
   KDE 4 will have decent support for native SVG icon sets.

Q. But I heard KDE 3.4 (or 3.5) supports SVG! You don't need PNGs anymore now?
A. No, we still need them. KDE has enhanced the KSVG renderer, which renders
   SVG graphics that are taken as background image or embedded in web sites.
   Unfortunately, KSVG is too slow to render many icons in little time,
   so the KDE folks made a less capable but faster SVG engine for displaying
   icons (with serious drawbacks). This icon renderer hasn't improved with
   KDE 3.4 - as said before, you'll have to wait for KDE 4.

Q. I want to contribute to the lila project (or need an icon in SVG source)!
A. This is a FAQ, you're supposed to ask questions! Well ok, anyways ;)
   We gather our files in a Subversion (SVN) repository from where everybody
   can access them. Only developers with an SVN account can modify the
   repository contents, but everyone, including you, can get the most
   current icons by using anonymous SVN.
   To fetch only the KDE icons, tell the command line to execute this:
   svn checkout svn://svn.berlios.de/lila-theme/trunk/lila/kde
   (using an empty password), or if you want to check out all of the
   lila project, do the same without the trailing "/lila/kde".
   You can then edit the icons, make new icons and color mods, and
   finally send your improvements to the lila forum.

Q. Yeah, and how do I make my own color mods?
A. First of all, you need the lila/kde and utils/svg-utils folders from the
   Subversion repository. Color mods are possible because SVG, our icon format,
   is in fact a pure textual description of the picture, which can be changed
   easily. The svg-utils perform the job of transforming picture properties,
   like colors. For icon color mods, the information about which source color
   transforms into which destination color is stored in XML files in the folder
   utils/svg-utils/svgcolor-xml/lila, where you'll also find the file
   lila-template.xml. You can copy and rename it to lila-mycolor.xml to create
   a new color transform description where you can edit all of the colors that
   you want to change. Then you can go to lila/kde/ and call
   ./makecolormod.sh mycolor
   and you'll get a set of transformed SVG files in your parent directory.
   If you need to, you can copy lila/kde/generate.py into the new folder
   and execute it there, which makes PNG images out of the SVG sources
   (so that you can use it as KDE icon theme).

Q. My question has not been answered here! or: I need further help!
A. Then you're supposed to go to the forums on lila-theme.berlios.de
   where we are waiting for your comments, questions, proposals or icons.
   Please don't become aggressive when something doesn't work as expected,
   after all, we're just people too and do this in our free time.
   Now go on, have fun with the icon set!
